Right ho, then. Let me marshal my facts. I went to Cannes leaving Jeeves behind, he having intimated that he did not wish to miss Ascot round about the beginning of June. With me travelled my Aunt Dahlia and her daughter Angela. Tuppy Glossop, Angela's betrothed, was to have been of the party, but at the last moment couldn't get away. Uncle Tom, Aunt Dahlia's husband, remained at home, because he can't stick the South of France at any price.

"Jeeves," I said, "may I speak frankly?"
"Certainly, sir."
"What I have to say may wound you."
"Not at all, sir."
"Well, then, the fact is, I've been thinking things over, and I believe that the time has come for Bertram Wooster to take the bull by the horns and give this Fink-Nottle business a bit of the old personal attention."
"Indeed, sir?"
"You don't seem excited, Jeeves."
"I am endeavouring, sir, to not give way to any undue display of emotion."
"Well, brace up. Because I have a plan."
"A plan, sir?"
"A scheme. A wheeze. A ruse. Call it what you will."
"I see, sir. And might I enquire the nature of this ruse?"
"You might, Jeeves. The fact is, Gussie is a shy sort of blighter. Mute in the presence of the girl he loves. Can't get the words out. You follow?"
"Perfectly, sir."
"My plan is to get him tight."
There was a pause in which the atmosphere could be felt thickening. Jeeves coughed the soft, low cough of a man who has something to say but isn't quite sure how to say it without causing offense.
"With respect, sir, I am not entirely sure that the administering of alcohol is the most advisable course of action in the present circumstances."
"Nonsense, Jeeves. Dutch courage. It's a recognised thing."
"Historically, sir, it has had somewhat mixed results."
"Your attitude wounds me, Jeeves. I expected more."
"I am sorry, sir."
"So am I, Jeeves. So am I."

Newts, Jeeves. Mr Fink-Nottle has a strong newt complex. You must have heard of newts. Those little sort of lizard things that charge about in ponds. Oh yes, sir, the aquatic members of the family Salamandridae which constitute the genus Molge. That is right. Well, Gussie has always been a slave to them. He used to keep them at school. I believe young gentlemen frequently do, sir. He kept them in his study in a kind of glass-tank arrangement, and pretty niffy the whole thing was, I recall. I suppose one ought to have been able to see what the end would be even then, but you know what boys are.

The evening was still young when the trouble began. Anatole, Aunt Dahlia's peerless French chef, had excelled himself with the soup, the fish, the entree, and the savoury. There was a general feeling of good will toward all men. And then Gussie, emboldened by an exceptionally generous hand with the claret which Aunt Dahlia had seen fit to provide, got to his feet and began to speak.

"Ladies and gentlemen," said Gussie, swaying slightly, "it gives me great pleasure to distribute these prizes."

"Hear, hear!" said somebody, probably Bertie, who had been put in charge of the encouraging noises.

"I have known some rotten prize distributions in my time," continued Gussie, who seemed to have got onto the subject of prize distributions and was not going to be shifted, "and I have known some good ones. This is a good one. Because I feel good. I feel wonderful. I feel as if the whole world is a great big beautiful newt pond, and I am the biggest, finest, most glorious newt in it. Does that make sense to anybody?"

It made very little sense to the assembled parents and children of Market Snodsbury Grammar School, who stared at him with the wide, puzzled eyes of those encountering the genuinely unhinged for the first time.

I mused on the situation as I sat there in the garden of Brinkley Court, a prey to considerable unease. The sun was setting behind the elm trees, the rooks were cawing, a pleasant smell of wallflowers drifted on the breeze, and somewhere in the middle distance a cow was lowering the tone of the whole thing by making that noise cows make when they have something on their minds. All very bucolic and peaceful, you might say, except that Bertram Wooster was not feeling bucolic and peaceful. Bertram Wooster was feeling like a man who has inadvertently put his foot into a wasps' nest while wearing open-toed sandals.

---

Now I want to say something about that three-men-in-a-boat business, because it is the sort of thing that could happen to anyone. We had a dog with us named Montmorency. I don't know if you are familiar with fox terriers. If you are, you will know that they are dogs whose chief characteristic is an unshakeable conviction that the entire world has been specifically arranged for their personal entertainment. Every lamp-post is a telegram. Every strange dog is an invitation to combat. Every cat is a direct challenge to their authority as apex predators of the neighbourhood.

Montmorency regarded the river with the kind of deep suspicion normally reserved for bailiffs and in-laws.

"What is that?" he seemed to say, planting his four legs in the mud and refusing to budge.

"That," said George, "is the River Thames. We are going to travel along it for two weeks in a small boat."

Montmorency considered this. Then he sat down and appeared to be giving the matter his full intellectual attention.

"No," he seemed to say.

Harris had the brilliant idea that we should make a stew. Harris frequently had brilliant ideas. The difficulty was that Harris's brilliant ideas and actual competence bore the same relationship as a man's ambitions and his bank balance — connected only in theory and separated in practice by a considerable gulf. We had left packing to the last minute, as all sensible travellers do. This meant that everything had been packed at least twice, and what had been packed first was now at the bottom, and what we needed was invariably the thing at the bottom.

"Have you packed the tin opener?" said George.
"Of course I packed the tin opener," said Harris.
"Where?"
Harris looked at the bag. The bag looked back.
"Ah," said Harris.

We had with us enough provisions to last a moderate-sized army through a brief campaign. We had tinned salmon, tinned peas, tinned beans, tinned beef, and a tin of something which had lost its label, which gave the expedition an air of mystery which I, for one, found unsettling. We had cheese. We had bread, though by the second day it had developed opinions of its own. We had a spirit stove which worked perfectly on dry land and refused absolutely to function near water. We had blankets, coats, and various items of clothing selected by three men who had each assumed the other two had thought about the weather.

The first lock was a revelation. I don't know if you've ever tried to navigate a lock with a dog who is convinced the lock-keeper is a personal enemy, a companion who disagrees with your assessment of the tiller's function, and a third companion who has somehow obtained a banjo and appears to believe that "Two Lovely Black Eyes" is appropriate music for the occasion. George, who played the banjo, played it with tremendous enthusiasm and almost no accuracy. The notes came out in roughly the right order if you were generous about what constituted the right order.

"You're flat," said Harris.
"I'm not flat," said George. "The banjo is flat."
"The banjo is the same as it always was."
"Then the river is flat."
"The river," said Harris, with dignity, "is not musical."

---

ACCIDENT, n. An inevitable occurrence due to the action of immutable natural laws. That is to say, it is the thing that happens when you have taken every possible precaution except the one that would have actually worked.

BORE, n. A person who talks when you wish him to listen. The world is full of bores, and each one of them is firmly convinced that the world is full of bores except himself.

BRAIN, n. An apparatus with which we think that we think. The chief use of the brain is to convince its owner that he is using it. Those who think most are not always those who think best, as anyone who has sat on a committee will confirm.

CABINET, n. The principal persons charged with the mismanagement of a government. A body of men who individually do nothing and collectively decide to do it together, with great ceremony and at considerable expense.

CLERGYMAN, n. A man who undertakes the management of our spiritual affairs as a method of bettering his temporal ones.

CONSERVATIVE, n. A statesman who is enamored of existing evils, as distinguished from the Liberal, who wishes to replace them with others. Both proceed upon the theory that any change is dangerous, unless it is the kind of change they happen to prefer, in which case it is visionary and inevitable and long overdue.

DIPLOMACY, n. The patriotic art of lying for one's country.

EDIBLE, adj. Good to eat, and wholesome to digest, as a worm to a toad, a toad to a snake, a snake to a pig, a pig to a man, and a man to a worm.

EGOTIST, n. A person of low taste, more interested in himself than in me.

ELECTION, n. The process by which the people of a democracy exercise their solemn right to determine which group of more-or-less identical men shall misrepresent them for the next four years.

EPITAPH, n. An inscription on a tomb, showing that virtues acquired by death have a retroactive effect.

EXPERIENCE, n. The wisdom that enables us to recognise as an undesirable old acquaintance the folly that we have already embraced. Experience is what you get when you didn't get what you wanted.

FIDELITY, n. A virtue peculiar to those who are about to be betrayed.

FRIENDSHIP, n. A ship big enough to carry two in fair weather, but only one in foul.

GENEALOGY, n. An account of one's descent from an ancestor who did not particularly care to trace his own.

HISTORY, n. An account mostly false, of events mostly unimportant, which are brought about by rulers mostly knaves, and soldiers mostly fools.

HOPE, n. Desire and expectation rolled into one. Hope is the thing with feathers, or so the poets say, though personally I have always found feathers to be more reliable than hope, since feathers at least keep you warm.

IGNORAMUS, n. A person unacquainted with certain kinds of knowledge familiar to yourself, and having certain other kinds that you know nothing about. The word is generally applied to the other fellow.

INCOMPATIBILITY, n. In matrimony a similarity of tastes, particularly the taste for domination.

LOGIC, n. The art of thinking and reasoning in strict accordance with the limitations and incapacities of the human misunderstanding.

MARRIAGE, n. The state or condition of a community consisting of a master, a mistress and two slaves, making in all, two. The institution has the remarkable property of making people who were formerly interesting thoroughly dull in each other's company.

OCEAN, n. A body of water occupying about two thirds of a world made for man, who has no gills.

PATIENCE, n. A minor form of despair, disguised as a virtue.

POLITICS, n. A strife of interests masquerading as a contest of principles. The conduct of public affairs for private advantage.

POSITIVE, adj. Mistaken at the top of one's voice.

PRAY, v. To ask that the laws of the universe be annulled in behalf of a single petitioner confessedly unworthy.

RABBLE, n. In a republic, those who exercise a supreme authority tempered by fraudulent elections.

REALITY, n. The dream of a mad philosopher.

RELIGION, n. A daughter of Hope and Fear, explaining to Ignorance the nature of the Unknowable.

SUCCESS, n. The one unpardonable sin against one's fellows. It is never forgiven, only envied or admired with secret reservations.

TWICE, adv. Once too often.

VOTE, n. The instrument and symbol of a free man's power to make a fool of himself and a wreck of his country.

---

I have noticed that when things are going particularly badly, they have a curious tendency to get worse. This is what I believe philosophers call Murphy's Law, though I prefer to think of it simply as the basic character of the universe expressing itself honestly for once.

Take, for example, the morning when I awoke to find that the boat had come untied in the night and was gently drifting downstream without us. This would have been merely inconvenient had not George also chosen this particular morning to announce that he was feeling unwell. George, when unwell, is an extraordinarily eloquent describer of symptoms. He can identify seventeen distinct varieties of headache, each one more alarming than the last, and will list them in ascending order of severity with the care of a man cataloguing rare manuscripts.

"The trouble," said George, lying flat on his back and staring at the ceiling of the lock-keeper's cottage with the expression of a man who has made his peace with eternity, "is here."

He indicated an area which seemed to encompass the majority of his body.

"And here," he added, extending the gesture.

"And possibly here," he concluded, making a sweeping motion that suggested he held the universe personally responsible for his condition.

Montmorency, who had by this point eaten a substantial portion of our remaining provisions and knocked the rest into the river, sat down and regarded George with an expression of deep professional sympathy. Montmorency frequently looked sympathetic. It was the sincerest look he had, and the least reliable indicator of his intentions.

Harris, meanwhile, was making tea. Harris's tea was a thing of legend, in the sense that one heard remarkable stories about it, none of them encouraging. The tea had the colour of strong iodine and a flavour which suggested that the manufacturer had been aiming at something quite different and had overshot by a considerable margin. We drank it anyway, as one drinks things in moments of crisis, with gratitude and without examination.

---

The matter came to a head at the formal dinner when Bertie, following what he believed to be a subtle and sophisticated plan of campaign, made the following announcement to the assembled guests:

"I should like to say a few words."

"Must you?" said Aunt Dahlia.

"I must," said Bertie. "The fact is, I have here a letter." He produced the letter with a flourish, as a conjuror produces a rabbit, except that rabbits are generally more welcome. "This letter," he continued, "settles everything."

There was a pause during which nobody appeared to feel that everything had been settled.

"Wooster," said Aunt Dahlia, in the tone of a woman selecting a weapon, "that is a bill from your tailor."

Bertie examined the letter. He examined it again. He turned it over. He turned it back.

"So it is," he said. "I appear to have brought the wrong letter. Ha ha."

"Ha ha," said nobody.

It was at this point that Jeeves materialised at my elbow in the way that Jeeves has, as though assembled from particularly distinguished thin air, and murmured something in a tone too low for the company to hear.

"Jeeves," I said, "you are a marvel."
"Thank you, sir."
"A positive genius."
"You are too kind, sir."
"How on earth did you know?"
"I endeavour to give satisfaction, sir."
"But how? The thing seemed utterly hopeless."
"There are moments, sir, when the apparently hopeless reveals itself to be merely the temporarily inconvenient. One applies the appropriate corrective and the situation is restored."
"Jeeves, if I were a girl, I would marry you."
"I am relieved that the situation does not arise, sir."
"Why?"
"You have, if I may say so, sir, certain habits with respect to the arrangement of your personal effects which would not conduce to domestic harmony."
"The cummerbund?"
"Among other items, sir, yes."

---

I am told by those who know about these things that a positive mental attitude is the key to success. I have attempted the positive mental attitude on numerous occasions, and I find that it works best when things are already going well, which is to say that it is somewhat superfluous. When things are going badly, the positive mental attitude collides with reality and is generally the worse for the encounter.

Consider the matter of the cow. The cow appeared in our tent at four in the morning. This was not, I hasten to say, an event we had planned or welcomed. The cow seemed uncertain about it herself. She stood there in the darkness, breathing in a ruminative way, and regarded the three of us with the calm, incurious gaze of a being that has long since come to terms with the fundamental absurdity of existence.

"There is a cow in the tent," said Harris.
"I can see that," said George.
"What shall we do?"
"I think," said George, after consideration, "we should wait and see what the cow does."
The cow did nothing for some time. She chewed. She shifted her weight from one foot to another with the dignity of a large public monument being moved to a new location. Then, with the leisurely deliberateness of a cow that has all the time in the world and knows it, she sat down.
"The cow," said Harris, "has sat on my boots."
"How do your boots feel about this?" I asked.
"They feel flat," said Harris.

Montmorency had, throughout this episode, been hiding under George's blanket. Fox terriers, it seems, maintain their air of supreme confidence largely by not putting it to the test.

---

YOUTH, n. The period of life when you believe that life is a period of youth. It passes with great swiftness and leaves behind it the curious conviction that it never quite happened to you personally.

ZEAL, n. A certain nervous disorder afflicting the young and the ambitious, observable chiefly in those who are most ignorant of the subject they are so enthusiastic about.

ABSTAINER, n. A weak person who yields to the temptation of denying himself a pleasure. A total abstainer is one who abstains from everything but abstention, and especially from inactivity in the matter of interfering with the rights of others.

ACTUALLY, adv. Perhaps; possibly; conceivably; under circumstances which have not yet been fully determined.

ADMIRATION, n. Our polite recognition of another's resemblance to ourselves. When we admire a man, we are in fact admiring the parts of him that remind us of us, and conveniently overlooking the rest.

ADVICE, n. The smallest current coin. It is freely given, lavishly dispensed, and invariably worthless to all parties except the dispenser, who derives from it a satisfaction similar to the one obtained from coughing in a theatre.

---

Jeeves drifted in carrying the morning tea. I say "drifted" because that is the only word for the way Jeeves moves. Other people walk. Jeeves filters himself from place to place, like a particularly well-bred fog.

"Your tea, sir."
"Right ho, Jeeves. What news from the outside world?"
"Nothing of immediate alarm, sir. The morning papers carry the usual selection of events both domestic and international, none of which appear to require immediate action on your part."
"That's a relief."
"Yes, sir. Though there is one matter of some delicacy."
I sipped the tea. It was, as always, perfect. I have sometimes wondered what Jeeves does to tea that makes it taste like tea ought to taste, as opposed to what it usually does taste like, which is a brave attempt at tea by someone who has been given a vague description of it.
"What matter of delicacy?"
"Your Aunt Agatha telephoned, sir."
I put down the cup with a clatter. In moments of genuine crisis, the refinements of tea-drinking are apt to be forgotten.
"Aunt Agatha?"
"Yes, sir."
"She telephoned?"
"Yes, sir."
"This house?"
"Yes, sir."
"What did she want?"
"She expressed a wish to speak with you, sir, on a matter she described as urgent and important."
I stared at him. Aunt Agatha, I should explain, is the sort of woman who makes strong men weak and weak men lie down and put pillows over their faces. She has opinions, and she shares them. She has expectations, and she enforces them. She is, in short, the kind of aunt who is the primary reason that the concept of emigration exists.
"Jeeves," I said, "am I in?"
"I took the liberty of informing your aunt that you had stepped out, sir."
"You are a good man, Jeeves."
"Thank you, sir."
"A prince among men."
"You are too generous, sir."
"No I am not, Jeeves. I am precisely generous enough. Have you ever considered the possibility that your talents are wasted on me?"
"Not wasted, sir. Applied."
"That's very diplomatically put."
"I endeavour to be accurate, sir."

---

We were somewhere in the neighbourhood of Pangbourne when Harris had his great idea about the maze. Harris, I should say, does not have great ideas in the conventional sense. He has ideas which strike him as great at the time of having them and which reveal their true nature only in the execution. The maze idea belonged firmly to this category.

"Let's go into Hampton Court Maze," said Harris.
"Why?" said George.
"Because it will be fun," said Harris, with the sort of confidence that ignores all available evidence.

We went into Hampton Court Maze. I will not describe in detail the three hours that followed, except to say that at various points we encountered the same elderly gentleman no fewer than five times, and each time he was more confused than the last, until by the fifth meeting he had apparently lost any remaining certainty about who he was and what he was doing there. Montmorency, who had initially treated the whole business as a personal challenge, eventually sat down in the middle of a path and refused to move on the grounds that if you keep walking you only find more path.

Harris, who had claimed to know the maze, turned out to know a maze. Whether it was this maze was an open question. He led us with great confidence in what he believed to be the correct direction, and we followed, also with confidence, until confidence ran out somewhere around the fourth turning and was replaced by the more sustainable emotion of resignation.

"I think," said George at last, "that we have been in this section before."
"This section and several others," I agreed.
"The maze," said Harris, "is larger than I remembered."
"The maze," said George, "is exactly the same size as it has always been. It is our ability to navigate it that appears to have diminished."
Montmorency barked at a hedge. The hedge made no reply, which was as much as could be expected.

---

All of which goes to show, I think, that life has a basic plotting instinct. Things do not merely happen. They arrange themselves into stories, and the stories have a tendency to get complicated at precisely the moments when simplicity would be most appreciated.

I have been told that somewhere, in the collected works of some philosopher or other, there is a proof that everything happens for a reason. I have not been able to locate this proof, but I am told it exists. If it does, the reason for most of what I have personally experienced remains, I confess, somewhat opaque to me. The cow in the tent, for example. The missing corkscrew. The evening when Bertie attempted to impersonate a well-known clergyman and fooled nobody except the clergyman himself, who was so offended that he left immediately and told everyone he met. The prize-giving at Market Snodsbury, where Gussie Fink-Nottle, fortified by approximately one and a half bottles of the local vintage, delivered a speech so unlike any previously delivered at a prize-giving that the local newspaper described it only as "an event of unusual character."

But perhaps this is what one should expect. Perhaps the universe is not a puzzle to be solved but a situation to be endured with as much grace and as much wine as one can manage.

Jeeves, I suspect, knows the answer. He always does. He just hasn't told me yet.

"Jeeves?"
"Sir?"
"Do you ever wonder about the meaning of it all?"
There was a brief pause in which Jeeves appeared to be selecting the appropriate response from a very large mental catalogue.
"I find, sir, that such speculation, while intellectually stimulating, is generally less productive than attending to the matters immediately at hand."
"That's your answer to everything."
"It has, sir, the considerable advantage of being applicable to everything."
I considered this.
"Jeeves," I said at last, "you may be right."
"Thank you, sir," said Jeeves. "Will there be anything else?"
"No, Jeeves. I think that will do for now."
"Very good, sir."

And he drifted out again, leaving me to the morning, the tea, and the comfortable sensation of problems not yet encountered, which is, when you think about it, very nearly the same thing as happiness.